# El Niño Trial Day Project

## Introduction and goals

Welcome to your trial day at El Niño!  

The trial day gives us an opportunity to get to know you, both as a person as well as a developer. It also gives you an opportunity to get a first glance at the company culture and meet some of the people you would be working with.  

The aim of this trial day project is to give us an overview of your software development skills - how you approach and solve problems, how you take technical decisions, your familiarity with software development practices, standards, and patterns. This is not a "leetcode" assignment - the goal is not to quickly throw together an application that fulfills the basic functional requirements, while paying no attention to code quality and software design. We want you to demonstrate the way you would operate in your day to day work, and to show us the kind of code you would be happy to send for code review and ultimately ship to our customers when working on real projects.  

In short, show us your best work, *quality over quantity*.  

## The task

Your task is to develop something that every programmer is familiar with - a to-do (web) app.  
Aside from the basic fundamental requirements listed below, you are free to make the app as simple or complex as you wish and can within the scope of your trial day. Some examples for optional additional functionality are given below the requirements. Feel free to come up with additional features to include, be creative!   

You can choose your own tech stack (programming language, frameworks, etc.). Pick something you are familiar with and able to work with within the time constraint of a single day.  
You can use any online materials you like, but don't copy-paste large portions of code from online sources. We want to see *your* code, not the code of Stack Overflow contributors. 

**Note:** If you would like to focus only on frontend or only on backend development in your job, feel free to only make a frontend or only a backend as part of this  project. Focus on your strong points. You are not required to be a full-stack developer for your trial day project if you are not applying to be a full-stack developer.

You will be asked to demonstrate the functionality you have developed at the end of the day, and there will be a short discussion on the code and technical decisions you made while developing it.  

If something is unclear, ask!

## How to start

1. **Fork** this repository using your own GitHub account
2. **Clone** the forked repository to your laptop
3. Share the forked repository with your trial day mentor
4. Start developing!
5. As you work, commit your code using descriptive commit messages, and push it to the forked repository on GitHub 

## Requirements

### Must have

#### Basic
- The app compiles and runs without start-up errors
- External libraries and requirements are managed with a package manager
- All code is included in a git repository, hosted on GitHub, and shared with someone from El Niño
- Work is split up into git commits with descriptive commit messages

#### Functionality
- [ ] User can create tasks with at least the following details: title, description, done (yes/no) 
- [ ] User can toggle tasks between done/not done
- [ ] User can delete tasks
- [ ] User can view tasks in a list
- [ ] User can edit a task's title and/or description

### Optional extra functionality
These are ideas for additional functionality you could add to your application, but don't have to. Feel free to come up with your own ideas.
- [ ] Tasks are stored persistently
- [ ] User can search tasks by their title and/or description using a search box
- [ ] User can re-order the tasks in the list based on priority
- [ ] User can add a deadline to a task
- [ ] User can export tasks as CSV, JSON, ...
- [ ] User can add tags to a task and filter tasks based on these tags
- [ ] Unit or integration tests for (some of) the functionality

<details>
<summary>Optional Data Science tasks</summary>

### Really optional *Data Science* flavored tasks
Below are some tasks you can do to showcase your Data Science skills:
- [ ] Given your to-do app has sufficient users, list down 2-3 potential DS projects with: 
    1. Which features are necessary to fulfil the project;
    2. What is the data required;
    3. Insights/features that the data might provide.
*Note: The format in which you need to describe the ideas does not have to follow the above structure. It is here to provide an example for the thought process.*
- [ ] Create some Data Visualisations (DV) with the data obtained from the application. Some examples would be:
    - DV that depicts the amount of active tasks over time;
    - DV that displays the relation between the priority of the task and the time it took to complete it.
*Note: You are encouraged to have the DV to be about the data that is generated by the optional extra functionality that you have implemented.*
</details>


## Tips

- Follow standard best practices if you know them, don't rush out messy code.
- Focus on quality over quantity - 5 features that work perfectly and with high quality code is better than 50 buggy features with spaghetti code.
- You can use your preferred tools, libraries and technologies. We suggest using the ones you already know!
- If you get stuck, or if something is unclear, **ask for help!**

## Final words

If you have any questions or get stuck, ask your trial day mentor for help!  
**Good luck!**
